Ian Erickson
CS362 Report 2
5/17/2012

Testing done:

I tested 3 different cases to make sure that buyCard was actually working properly. These test cases 
mostly covered checking that the card isn't being bought with resources that the player doesn't have.

The first case was making sure that coins were actually decrementing, thus not allowing a player to 
infinitely buy cards simply because they initially had the correct amount of coins. I tested 3 people's 
code from my group, as well as my own:

mcelfrec: passed
wheeleri: failed
brookjon: passed
ericksoi: passed

I found that wheeleri's code was decrementing the number of buys, but was not at any point decrementing 
number of coins.

The second case was checking if the player had the correct amount of money to buy any given card, so they 
can't just buy any card at any given time. This should have been my first case, but I tested for it after
testing the coin decrementing. I tested 3 people's code from my group, as well as my own:

mcelfrec: passed
wheeleri: passed
brookjon: passed
ericksoi: passed

The third case that I did augmented the first. I tested to make sure that at any point in the code the 
number of coins was equal to what it should be based on actions taken. I tested 3 people's code from my 
group, as well as my own:

mcelfrec: passed
wheeleri: failed
brookjon: passed
ericksoi: passed

It was no surprise to me that the results of the third case and the first case were the same, but I 
thought it would be a valid thing to test regardless. 

I don't think that I did my testing very efficiently (did it case by case, all by hand), and I think for 
the next test report I'd like to automate it a little bit. I'm not sure whether my dominion code is 100% 
or not, but based on these tests it seems to be working. For future testing I'd like to look more into 
card availability rather than coin-to-card transactions. It seems like a lot could go wrong with which 
cards are available, number of buys available, etc. I would also like to work a little more with gcov 
because I didn't quite get around to it, but it seems as though that would give me a very clear view of 
what is going on within everybody's code. 
