I took the approach of random testing. 
The first test case is that if I have an adequate amount of money purchasing the card is possible
	for (n = 0; n < 17; n++) {
		G.coins=8;
		checkBuyCard(n, &G);
	}
	this goes trough and tests all the cards to make sure that they can be bought.
	
The Second test case is that with not enough money the card will not be bought
basically it checks to make sure -1 is returned when you use buy card

The Third test case is that if you buy a card then buy another card your money will have
gone down so that buying the second card is not possible
	G.coins=5;
	checkBuyCard(silver, &G);
	checkBuyCardFail(silver, &G);
	
	Since silver cost 3 you shouldn't be able to buy it twice

All of the test cases are pretty short only requiring a few lines of code
My method for choosing inputs is just to try all of the different cards

I tested my own code to find that it failed the last test because my code
didn't decrement coins after buying a card.

I also tested Randb as a randomly selected student. None of my tests failed
on his dominion.c 

At this point I have only tested those 2 dominions as it took a bit to get
rid of problems with my tester code.

For future code I plan to test problems with trying to buy a card that has run
out

Other possible bugs haven't crossed my mind although I want to incorporate 
more different testing methods to cover more types of possible problems.


In time for a second round of testing.

I updated all my tester code to make sure that the circumstances make sense for every situation
I made sure that when I was buying a card that there was at least on in supply and there was an
apropriate amount of money for what I am testing. 

I also added two test cases to my test code. One to make sure that you actually had the buys.
And another one to make sure that the buy card function can't buy the card if there isn't any
left in the resouses.	

I tested my groups projects
y = passed test
n = failed

tester name		Enough money	Not Enough	Decrement Coins		none in resourses	not enough buys
westb(me)		y				y			y					n					n
murrown			y				n			n					n					n
adamsmic		y				y			y					y					y
brookjon		y				y			n					y					y
kropfd			y				y			n					y					n
vanbeeks		y				y			y					y					y
wheelri			y				n			n					n					n
ericksoi		y				y			y					n					n
mcelfrec		y				y			y					y					y


I learned after testing that I need to update my dominion.c to check to see if cards are available and
make sure there are enough buys to get the card.